Testing with different database providers (#2319)
dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/core/miscellaneous/testing/sharing-databases.md

author: ajcvickers
ms.date: 04/25/2020
uid: core/miscellaneous/testing/sharing-databases
---

# Sharing databases between tests

The [EF Core testing sample](xref:core/miscellaneous/testing/testing-sample) showed how to test applications against different database systems.
For that sample, each test created a new database.
This is a good pattern when using SQLite or the EF in-memory database, but it can involve significant overhead when using other database systems.

This sample builds on the previous sample by moving database creation into a test fixture.
This allows a single SQL Server database to be created and seeded only once for all tests.

> [!TIP]
> Make sure to work through the [EF Core testing sample](xref:core/miscellaneous/testing/testing-sample) before continuing here.

It's not difficult to write multiple tests against the same database.
The trick is doing it in a way that the tests don't trip over each other as they run.
This requires understanding:
* How to safely share objects between tests
* When the test framework runs tests in parallel
* How to keep the database in a clean state for every test  

> ## The Fixture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The fixture
```

The database is created by first deleting any existing database and then creating a new database.
This ensures that the database matches the current EF model even if it has been changed since the last test run.

> [!TIP]
> It can be faster to "clean" the existing database using something like [respawn](https://jimmybogard.com/tag/respawn/) rather than re-create it each time.
> However, care must be taken to ensure that the database schema is up-to-date with the EF model when doing this.

The database connection is disposed when the fixture is disposed.
You may also consider deleting the test database at this point.
However, this will require additional locking and reference counting if the fixture is being shared by multiple test classes.
Also, it is often useful to have the test database still available for debugging failed tests.  

## Using the fixture

XUnit has a common pattern for associating a test fixture with a class of tests:

[!code-csharp[UsingTheFixture](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/Testing/ItemsWebApi/SharedDatabaseTests/SharedDatabaseTest.cs?name=UsingTheFixture)]

> XUnit will now create a single fixture instance and pass it to each instance pf the test class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XUnit will now create a single fixture instance and pass it to each instance of the test class.
```

> (Remember that XUnit creates a new test class instance every time it runs a test.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(And XUnit creates a new test class instance every time it runs a test.)
```
